+++
title = "The beginning of the blog"
author = ["Tan Minh Ho"]
tags = ["setup", "zettelkasten", "note-taking"]
draft = false
+++

## Why I create this blog? {#why-i-create-this-blog}

I'be been using the Zettelkasten method for the past few months ever since I read the book "[How to Takes Smart Notes](https://www.soenkeahrens.de/en/takesmartnotes)", and I have to say it's been a game-changer. Zettelkasten, also known as the "slip-box", is not just a run-of-the-mill note-taking system.  Instead, it's a potent tool for managing and integrating information. With Zettelkasten, I can develop a personalized knowledge base that can be continually updated and expanded indefinitely.

While the Zettelkasten method is undoubtedly impressive, there is one factor to bear in mind - this system is specifically designed for **knowledge management** and not intended for storage or archiving. This implies that I can't merely add a note to my slip-box and label it as "something I learned". In the world of Zettelkasten, simply recording a new piece of knowledge isn't enough. To fully comprehend and integrate the information, I need to engage with it actively, whether that by writing, programming, or otherwise applying it in a practical way. This approach ensures that the knowledge is not just stored in the slip-box but actively used and assimilated, which is crucial for deep learning and retention.

For me, it sounds like starting a blog is an excellent way to put the knowledge I've acquired through the Zettelkasten method into practice. By writing about what I've learned, I can deepen my understanding of the subject matter and also share my insights with others. Additionally, blogging provides an excellent platform for receiving feedback and engaging in discussions, which can further enrich my learning experience.


## How I set it up? {#how-i-set-it-up}

**Automation is the key**. Because writing, managing and deploying blog can be time-consuming, and automating certain aspects can free up valuable time for other activities.


### Choose the static site generators {#choose-the-static-site-generators}

When it comes to static site generators, there are numerous options to choose from, such as Jekyll, Hugo, Zola, and many others. Each has its own unique features and benefits, which can make it difficult to decide on the right one. Based on my previous experience with [a team project](https://www2.htw-dresden.de/~jvogt/projektseminar/public/index.html), I've decided to choose Hugo for this blog.

Once I've chosen a theme and created a repository based on that theme, and have tested the website locally using **hugo server**, it's time to automate the process of building and deploying the site. This can be accomplished using a pipeline, which is a series of automated tasks that are executed in a specific order.


### Setup the pipeline {#setup-the-pipeline}

The pipeline will typically involve several steps, including building the site, deploying it to the web server, and maybe testing it. However, in my case, I've decided to skip the testing stage and deploy the site to GitHub Pages. Furthermore, since I also own a domain, I configure the custom domain and create a CNAME record that points **blog.flickcluster.tk** to **silentflick.github.io**. You can find the GitHub Actions file of this blog [here](https://github.com/SilentFlick/Blogs/blob/main/.github/workflows/hugo.yml) and the [documentation how to configuring a subdomain](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/configuring-a-custom-domain-for-your-github-pages-site/managing-a-custom-domain-for-your-github-pages-site#configuring-a-subdomain).

From now on, every time I execute a **git push**, the site will be automatically generated and deployed without requiring any manual intervention on my part.


### Bonus {#bonus}

Being an Emacs user, I opted to write this blog in org-mode and saved it in my Nextcloud directory. To facilitate the conversion process from org to Hugo markdown, I added the following lines at the beginning of the file:

```nil
#+hugo_base_dir: ~/Documents/Blogs
#+hugo_tags: setup zettelkasten note-taking
```

By doing this, I can execute the command **org-hugo-export-to-md** to automatically convert the file to Hugo markdown and save it in the blog's repository. One of the benefits of this approach is that I don't have to learn the syntax or format of another markup language. Additionally, if I ever want to have a PDF version of the blog, I can easily generate one by executing **org-latex-export-to-pdf**.


## Key lessons learned {#key-lessons-learned}

-   Although executing multiple commands in the terminal can be interesting, repeating them over and over again can become tedious. Therefore, if any of these steps can be automated, it is wise to do so.
-   When it comes to any system or setup, simplicity is of utmost importance. Starting with the basisc and gradually expanding to fit your needs.
